hey guys this is not a video about a
logical fallacy there's it seems to me
like the Internet has really encouraged
people to indulge in insulting and
reviling one another by invoking logical
fallacies people want to shut down each
other's arguments people want to laugh
in other people's faces by saying oh no
that's a blank fallacy actually you know
sometimes you need to have a somewhat
more quiet and relaxed and respectful
attitude when your fellow human beings
slip into fallacious modes of thinking
and sometimes you know something that's
technically a fallacy actually does
contribute to the conversation or
contribute to the debate in a meaningful
way because maybe even though they're
telling you something in a fallacious
way maybe they're still sharing
meaningful information or sharing the
wrong perspective or explaining their
own bias one of the many fallacies that
people like to complain about sometimes
in a shallow and cathy way centers in a
sincere way is the slippery slope
fallacy so one of my reasons for making
this video in the way I am there was a
comment months and months ago on YouTube
little one sentence comment from Olivia
B shadow to Olivia if you still watch
the channel months later Olivia said
izel loves the slippery slope theory
more than he loves talking about the
Green Party and when she says talking
about the Green Party what she really
means of course is complaining about the
Green Party I have many videos in which
I complained that I really disliked the
Green Party of Canada I'd like to thank
all vegans do or most of you kids do
because the green party candidate is
terrible for veganism they support the
meat and dairy industry blah blah blah
don't get me started but anyway real
slippery slope fallacies do exist in
life if a politician stands up at a
podium and says gay-rights should be
opposed gay marriage should be prevented
because allowing gay rights would lead
to a situation in which three men could
marry one woman or three women could
marry one man that is a slippery slope
argument that is a genuinely fallacious
argument that's not the way the world
works right you pass a law
you know if you have a law that allows
people to carry a pistol in some
countries you can solution that doesn't
mean that in the future people will be
able to carry grenades it doesn't mean
that in the future people will be able
to own airplanes or artillery guns or
tanks it doesn't that that's a real
that's genuine slippery slope reasoning
that's a really fallacious way to think
much more often though I see people
using this word in this concept of
slippery slope where it doesn't really
apply so one example of this in earlier
videos I really cautioned my fellow
vegans against engaging in violence of
any kind even seemingly small and
harmless forms of violence so when a
natural vegan denounced Sorcha murabba
as an extremist you can see I made a
video on that ludacris what what an
attribute that I said no let's really
talk about extremism let's really talk
about the problem the unit some animal
rights have had historically in the
recent past with violent protests with
radicals radicals and I talked through
one especially moving example of a guy
and you saw that earlier on in his
career he was engaged in seemingly
trivial forms of violence forms of
violence you could laugh at for as well
as you didn't have take too seriously he
and some other animal rights activists
broke into a conference of scientists
and they hated these scientists because
some of them did experiments and animals
and they smashed up a bunch of bottles
of I forget now if it was wine or
champagne let's say it's champagne it
was expensive champagne or something so
these scientists at this conference had
their champagne bottle smashed by some
animal rights activists that's a ok but
I warned the video said yeah sounds cute
now just wait to see what this video is
going and the same guy who I discuss in
the video he later went on to put bombs
in four shops shops selling fur coats to
engage in you know violent activism that
has real victims
not just your crimes against property
and you know i think it was in response
to this kind of thing that a libya made
this comment saying hey you know ISIL is
always invoking the slippery slope
fallacy okay that's not a slippery slope
LC and i think it's actually worth
thinking through in a somewhat
philosophic fist gateway what i really
am saying and what i really am warning
you about and the two the two examples
of used really can be contrasted when
the politician makes that claimable gay
rights it's a slippery slope fallacy
because that's not the way legislation
works okay when i make this claim about
violence having an effect on how your
organization itself works is not a
slippery slope fallacy I'm warning you
another one of the warnings of given
vegans repeatedly was look at the IRA
within the IRA is silly sir the IRA for
those who don't know in the history of
ireland the ra was and still is a
radical violent group trying to achieve
political independence violence they're
basically an anti british group okay and
whenever you read accounts of people who
live with the IRA for many years or see
interviews with them very often i
shouldn't say always very often they
reflect that they lived their lives in
fear not of their enemy they lived their
lives in fear of other people within the
organization purges and infighting and
allegations and rumors you know everyone
was afraid that someone else might
secretly be a snitch someone else might
secretly be a turncoat fear of betrayal
and reprisal the violence within the
organization kept people living in fear
right fear for themselves fear for their
families etc etc so the type of violence
within the IRA this is a warning not a
slippery slope fallacy saying look how
does your organization change when
people can't trust each other in this
way how does your organization change
when you've closed the door to the
possibility of going to City Hall of
doing fundraising
lawyer of engaging in real open
democratic advocacy when you've closed
all those doors because you've opened
the door to violence things change
things change for how you have
friendships with other activists within
your organization maybe it doesn't
become as bad as the IRA but still I
mean I new vegans in Canada who were
proudly engaging in you know cute forms
of violence seemingly trivial forms of
violence destroying property destroying
cages destroying traps um going out and
trying to stop okay you know this you
think this is cute now what happens when
the police shake down one of your
members and then other people wonder did
here at me out even if it's so cold
trivial so-called cute violence you went
and smashed up a bunch of cages used by
a wildlife control it's a real example I
know about can you think that's cute now
the government comes to you and says hey
those cages you destroyed were worth
more than ten thousand dollars so it's a
serious crime it falls into this
category we caught one of you now we're
going to ask now we're going to look
into your whole organization now we've
got all your emails now we're asking
people to write each other out I
understand completely why you would
think of this in terms of its slippery
so fallacy but for me there are
procedural changes in what the activism
itself is activism is such a vague term
right when you've abandoned a set of
legitimate Democratic methods and you've
embraced what I consider illegitimate
but violence and illegal methods it
changes who you are it changes how you
and your friends relate to one another
it changes the type of trust and
distrust within your organization and it
changes what you mean by by activism
itself this vague term right there's
another angle is that which is
psychological right the first example of
the let's say homophobic politician the
politician is opposed to gay rights
bureaucracy has no soul bureaucracy has
no psyche you can pass a law that makes
one type of gun illegal and
type II illegal hilariously in many
parts United States to have a sawed-off
shotgun is completely illegal and it's
considered a weapon of mass destruction
but in Canada it's not so people in
states about that is a very serious
criminal charge they possess a weapon of
mass destruction because they have an
illegally modified shotgun it think it
varies from state to state but in Canada
the same kind of shocked a snubnose
shotgun is permitted bureaucracy has no
soul bureaucracy can live with
contradictions bureaucracy again so the
way slippery slope applies to it's very
different human beings you know you can
look at you can sit down and plan what
are we going to do in the next five
years are we going to open and operate a
vegan hot dog stand are we going to open
and operate a vegan pancake restaurant
are we going to open and operate a vegan
political charity where we raise money
and use that money um you know to to
advocate certain causes and government
to bring a certain mr. City Hall etc and
you can anticipate how that's going to
change you how the work is going to
change you any project like that people
ask you for advice all the time lose one
guy who was planning to go back to
university get a degree in law and
become try to become some kind of animal
rights lawyer and I talked to him about
it you have to think about not just how
your circumstances will change you have
to think about how this process will
change you because when you go i
remember he said he said of himself may
be boastful he didn't care about the
money at all he said well as long as he
has enough money to pay rent he's happy
so you feel that way now after you've
gone through the misery of law school
and an articling to become a lawyer
which is a form of internship you go
through the law school you go through
the internship process ten years from
now you might find that you care a lot
about the money you might find that
having gone through that denigrating
boring exhausting process that you say
I've been living in poverty and doing
this meaningless denigrating grinding
exhausting work for so many years now
I've got to get paid enough to justify
the misery I've gone through in
school in the internship and probably
having some low level jobs in the law
soon thereafter okay your suffering will
change you and I mean some people are
freed up with the way I use the word
suffering yes I do actually consider the
type of experience you go through in law
school suffering i think i think there's
no cynicism ole people really do suffer
going through that process for years and
years go to law school is not it's not
permanent vacation it's not a vacation
of course the type of suffering is
different from being tortured or what
have you you can talk about that you can
meet other people who've been through
law school but the real lesson I won't
draw your attention to here is that
suffering will change you not just in
ways you can anticipate but in ways that
you cannot anticipate and I've seen that
again and again in the study of politics
in the study of extreme politics to cut
to the chase what I in university before
September 11 2001 perforce number 11 I
studied politics in the Muslim world and
you saw all the time there would be guys
who at one stage of the career will
relatively moderate relatively pragmatic
and then they got snatched off the
street put into a ghost house tortured
and when they came out their perspective
on the world was different their
perspective on politics was different to
say they had been radicalized maybe
gives radicalism a bad name so that
again in the gap mr. again with
communism the type of repression the
type of violent experience many
communists injured maybe at the start of
the process maybe when they first became
ideological communists they weren't down
to engage in house-to-house searches
murdering babies with bayonets literally
murdering babies but they go through a
process and by the end of that suffering
has changed them and they're completely
down to murder babies for the cause in
my essay is a good essay about communism
and the far east of russia so this is
the part of russia politically that
really is in asia so they did have
russian people there but they had korean
people and japanese people and chinese
people is very and that indigenous
ethnic minority people is is really the
russian empire but in east asia and you
know when the Lennon has got there when
the Bolsheviks got there when the
Russian communists got there well they
were marching to this town they were
giving instructions to the guys hey you
know and we get to the next town we're
not just killing adult men or not just
killing women and children were even
killing you know babies and one of the
justifications given for this was
because children consume too much milk
and the milk would be needed for the
communist soldiers who had broken bones
so this is the old-fashioned
supernatural belief that somehow cow
milk helps you repair you know broken
bones unlike us vegans at SA has some
dark dark material in it from human
nature it's not a slippery slope the
role of violence the role of suffering
in general because I mean the example of
law school is completely nonviolent but
they're still suffering and I've seen
that I've seen that with people with
PhDs and I made all kinds of degrees
maybe if it's even just having to
flatter a professor who you have
contempt for having to cope with a
bureaucracy that you feel too humanizes
you doing work that you find denigrating
over years and years yeah there can be
real suffering and again doesn't
necessarily make people bitter but it
changes people in ways they can't
anticipate themselves I've been through
a lot of acute suffering in my life
physical psychological and otherwise I
can tell you there is absolutely no way
I could have anticipated how separation
from my daughter would change me
I may still be figuring out now how that
separation of my daughter change me the
type of suffering I went through in
going from spending 24 hours a day seven
days a week with my daughter you know
from her birth through the first year of
her infancy to suddenly not seeing her
at all suffering is tremendous and some
of it is on a very deep instinctual
level and you know again even though it
may sound like a very abstract form of
suffering I can definitely say the type
of suffering I went through in
bureaucratic situations or no one's
hurting me impacted me more and change
me more than some really direct forms of
suffering like you know extreme illness
or broken bones or you know having my
life threatened having someone try to
kill me with a machete and this stuff
didn't really I'd maybe I'm unusual that
stuff did not impact me a lot and you
know i'd say this actually links back to
racism in a dynamic way um you know I
really do appreciate and some someone
white people can't I really do
appreciate how the type of suffering a
black person might feel when bureaucracy
treats them in a denigrating way even if
it's subtle in coping with a white
bureaucracy that's biased against them
in coping with police officers or any
kind of bureaucratic situation there can
be very subtle the profound effect on
people which again like being a law
student in law school or what have you
and what I'm talking about the suffering
changing it doesn't have to be something
as blunt as as broken bones you know and
it can be over a long period of time
that way um so you know my warning
against against violence my you know
long-standing argument that vegans have
to appreciate the importance of
genuinely democratic genuinely opened
I think you know of these few people
yeah to openly advocate for violence of
any kind you know I've talked about this
in the channel before some people say
violence but they only endorse violence
against property not violence against
people that's going to have a measure
blah blah blah if you think the level of
hostility and backstabbing and suspicion
and hatred that we have within veganism
now is bad I can imagine it getting
worse I think when you mix terrorism in
to what's already a bad situation I can
imagine getting worse but I've studied
political history I can imagine veganism
being less like a high school prom and
more like the IRA and I want to stop
that from happening but I know that
there are people have met and spoke to
people who want veganism to move towards
violence or they personally want to join
groups that use violence precisely
because they feel that violence will
discipline their fellow vegans that
violence will bring a form of
seriousness and earnestness to the
movement or to their their group their
cell within the movement they want the
secrecy and seriousness and
self-discipline that violence will bring
that the fear of state repression will
bring they want the simplicity and
clarity of purpose that hostility
towards the government will bring
whether they're in England or in the
United States or Canada I understand
that emotionally and intellectually I
understand that but I'm here to tell you
sincerely that you're wrong and you're
not just wrong because getting on that
path will put you in a cage will put you
in prison you're wrong in your means in
your motives in the ends that you're
going
the Warrens you're wrong in the way that
you're going to transform the activist
group you're a part of the type of
hostility suspicion etc have already
described and you're wrong because you
don't know how suffering will change you
you don't you think you're not a killer
but you could be you could become one
you think you're someone who won't rat
out your friend to the cops but you
could be you could become that person or
you think you wouldn't kill someone who
is currently a friend because they
ratted you out to the cops or they
ratted out another member of your
activist group to the cops but you could
be you don't know how suffering will
change you that's not a slippery slope
argument